Data Science is the study of data. It involves Huge volumes of heterogeneous data that are collected, managed, processed, analyzed, visualized, and interpreted in connection with a wide range of scientific, translational, and inter-disciplinary applications. Data science and Statistics have many Similar characteristics. Both concentrate on gathering data and utilizing it for analysis and problem-solving in the actual world. Because of their similarities, data science and statistics may appear to be distinct titles for the same professional specialty; however, this is not the case. The multifaceted area of data science necessitates programming, computer science, machine learning, and algorithm development expertise. Big data is a collection of structured, semi-structured, and unstructured data that is gathered by businesses or organizations and may be mined for information for use in advanced analytics applications like machine learning and predictive modeling. Big data is important for all fields. So, data science is required to handle such material. Nearly all instances of this propensity can be found. data science is concerned with huge data and Data scientists are prepared to deal with such large datasets. A successful data scientist must be able to explore the data and use rigorous statistical analysis to become one with it. However, effective data scientists are also aware of the requirements for deploying production systems. They are willing to get their hands dirty by writing code to execute basic system functions or clean up the data. It takes time to acquire all these talents. The tools and results of mathematical statistics, as well as methods for analyzing data, techniques for interpreting the results of such approaches, and methods for structuring the collection of data to make its analysis easier, more accurate, or more precise, are all applicable to data analysis. The ability of data scientists to help analysts learn from their data should be their criterion for success. The tools that data analysts utilize will directly benefit them. The indirect value of theories is in the development of tools.